---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint Assignment 3
date: 2020-05-14
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
1. Show what each page will look like. The pages do not have to be “functional” but the design should clear.
There will be a products page (index.html) and a cart. I'll also keep the contact and shipping tabs in the nav bar so you can jump around the website.
2. Describe your design for your site’s shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.
I am still experimenting with trying to get a few designs to work. At the moment I am trying to develop a "cart" that will sit at the top or bottom of the page and store the quantities. However it might be easier to have a separate page for the cart to redirect to the invoice.  
3. Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their objects) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session.
Users will need to log in and will have their own session. On clicking "add to cart" the quantities will be saved to that session.  
4. How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?
Security concerns include data breaches including revealing a user's login information to others users. 
5. Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary)
Users will be greeted by their first name. Will probably grab this from user_data.json, havent tried it yet though. 
7. How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?
I am testing as I go along more. I'm also trying not to overcomplicate the code as it is supposed to be relatively simple and I don't want to create unnecessary frustrating problems. 

